# affine-cipher
Implementation of an affine cipher that provides both encryption and decryption.

As well as a cracker for an affine cipher all of this coded in C language

•	Your first task is to implement the Affine Cipher that provides both encryption and decryption operations. In an Affine Cipher, encryption of a plaintext m (which is an integer in the range 0 … n-1 and a mapping from a letter of an alphabet of size n) is computed as Enc(m) = am+b mod n where a, b are random integers with gcd(a, n) = 1. Note that a and b are your private encryption keys. These keys will also be used during decryption. Your program should allow the user the option to either encrypt or decrypt a plaintext that is chosen from the English alphabet. The user should be prompted to enter a plaintext and arbitrary keys (a and b with gcd(a, 26) = 1) to be used in the encryption process. You will convert each character of your plaintext into an integer between 0 and 25. For example, if you are given "ABCDE" then you should get 01234 (0 for A, 1 for B, 2 for C, and so on). Then you should encrypt/decrypt the sequence. After the process, you will again convert the numbers into letters (A for 0, B for 1, C for 2, and soon). The output should be text printed to console. 

NOTE: All letters should be first converted to their uppercase equivalents before encryption and decryption. White spaces should be maintained while all other characters should be discarded. Your program is expected to be an elegant program that minimizes the repetition of common code. Note that the best program is rarely one with the most lines of code, but rather one that accomplishes the task most simply and with the least code. Try to eliminate redundant code. Comments should be used to explain everything which is not obvious from the code, e.g. why you are doing something, not exactly what it does. A flow diagram for encryption and decryption program should be provided as well (functional design) where it contains a diagram of the functions you have implemented.                                                                                                           

• Your second task is also to write a program for cracking a ciphertext that was encrypted using an Affine Cipher. Each group will be given a ciphertext (through the Announcements tab on the Blackboard shell), and your program is expected to crack it and disclose the plaintext.
